shocking allegations tonight against the
former head physician of the u.s.
women's Olympic gymnastics team accused
of sexually assaulting young girls in
his care over a period of 19 years
allegations of an extraordinary of use
of power against girls too young to
understand what was happening to them
and afraid to speak out but now
strengthened by one another the accusers
are coming forward in droves
here's ABC's Lindsay Jenna he was
helping me get to my Olympic dream
something I've been dreaming about since
I was 3 years old I didn't even question
it in 2000 Jamie dancer took home a
bronze medal for Team USA gymnastics a
shining triumph but behind it he says a
painful secret I mean personally he did
he did touch my breast underneath my
t-shirt for young gymnast with Olympic
dreams dr. Larry Nasser was like a god
and rose again the official position for
Team USA you swear he was the absolute
best and I was very lucky I was very
honored to be able to see him but now
athletes from around the country are
coming forward to say they now realize
he sexually abused them all under the
guise of medical treatment I just
remember he asked me not to wear
underwear and to wear loose shorts and I
thought that was a little bit weird
earlier today Nasser was charged with 22
counts of criminal sexual conduct in
Michigan five of which relate to victims
who are under 13 years old the charges
relate to Nazareth time in the state
where he was a faculty member at
Michigan State University he pleaded not
guilty this guy is despicable
this guy is disgusting and he's a
monster
NASA was Team USA Gymnastics head
physician for 19 years as you can see
him here helping Kerri Strug in this
iconic moment after she injured her
ankle vaulting in the 1996 Olympics when
did you first meet dr. nasir I had just
finished World Championships at the age
of 15 and through most of that year I'd
had
extreme hip pain like to the point where
I would wake up in the morning unable to
walk Jessica Howard was the u.s.
national champion in rhythmic gymnastics
for 1999 to 2001 she said she met Nasser
at the famed Karolyi ranch being here in
videos from USA Gymnastics located
outside Houston it's an elite Olympic
training ground run by legendary coaches
Bella and Marta Karolyi
they coached 10 gymnastics champions
including great like Simone biles and
Nadia Comaneci
during Team USA's training season the
young athletes lived on the ranch for
NASA treated them you come from a an
entire environment of silence and
strength and doing what you're told
doing what you're told obedience and I
just did what I was told so you showed
up in your shorts and no underwear and
you laid on the table and what happened
next
he began massaging kind of my quads and
my IT bands and then he got closer and
closer you know some more intimate areas
and then he penetrated me did he say
anything to you when he was doing that
but I remember feeling rigid on the
table just very uncomfortable what were
you thinking
I was thinking what's happening I was
the most innocent fifteen-year-old you
could find like I was so trusting so it
didn't even go through my head that this
man could be hurting me
when he first did the procedure we'll
call it I was either 13 or 14 dancer
says she met dr. nasir when she made the
gymnastics national team seeking
treatment for back pain I used to do a
lot of soft tissue massaging exercises
the case said that there is a procedure
or a way to get my hips back in
alignment when he would put his fingers
into me vaginally and I don't know how I
wasn't uncomfortable but just being a
kid and being a little girl and being
such an intense environment I was so
miserable because I felt like I got in
trouble every day for something else I
had no idea back then that he was doing
something wrong you think of gymnastics
you think of a happiness the joy the
medals won the nation cheering for these
young athletes and then to hear this
sorted awful disgusting appalling story
oh it's just beyond troubling it is one
of the worst things we have seen in US
Olympic history more than 60 women and
girls have filed complaints against dr.
nasir some like dancer are also suing
coaches Bella and Marta Karolyi
saying they created an environment at
their ranch that gave NASA the
opportunity to abuse young gymnasts they
created an atmosphere with intimidation
fear and control you know we weren't
really allowed to talk they controlled
what we ate they controlled when we
spoke dr. nasir wasn't just alone with
these girls he was alone with them in
their sleeping quarters
not just at the ranch but at venues all
over the world where they went to
compete California attorney John Manley
represents many of the accusers
including dancer and Howard what Nasser
did is came in with a sunny personality
I'm a nice man you can trust me gave the
kids candy listen to their problems and
they liked him and they trusted him and
he used that trust to disguise sexual
assault as medical tree
he was very nice and he was on the
gymnast side you know he cared about
what you were going through you know so
he was kind of a break from all of the
endless you know negativity that you
dealt with on a daily basis he was a
friend a spokesman for the Corollas
tells ABC News they deny the existence
of a toxic environment and that the
karoli say they were never aware that
dr. nasir would be performing any
procedures which are now the subject of
the present litigation many are now
asking questions about how the doctor
had so much access to some of the most
elite young athletes in the country for
so many years this shows an incredible
light on the vulnerability of these
young athletes we're on the elite
national team we're training at the
world in the Olympic level your parents
don't go with you and they trusted USA
Gymnastics to make sure that they were
protecting us dr. nasir was in my room
late at night giving me treatment in my
own bed dancers lawsuit like some others
also names USA Gymnastics claiming they
failed to protect her in a statement USA
Gymnastics said they were outraged that
a physician would exploit his patients
in the alleged manner and reiterated
they dismissed dr. nasir when they
learned of the accusations and reported
him to the FBI
both dancer and Howard tell us it took
them years to come to grips with what
they say dr. nasir did to them and to
decide to speak out can you have any
desire to face him I don't know if I
could at this point but again I find
strength in the fact that there are so
many others that have come forward and I
believe that together we could face him
easily and show him that we are not
victims anymore
we are not innocent children and we can
fight back now I also have six nieces
and majority of them do gymnastics and I
couldn't I couldn't live with the fact
that this could happen to them if I
didn't say anything I just I just
couldn't live with that
today the Michigan Attorney General says
they'll be seeking the longest possible
sentence against Larry Nasser each
degree charge punishable by up to life
in prison he'll also have to face
several civil lawsuits including dancers
and Howard when somebody sacrifices
their childhood and their adolescence to
compete for their country in the Olympic
Games and we and we we watch them when
we see those smiles I want people to
know and they want people now behind
those smiles in some instances is a
tremendous amount of pain they shouldn't
be there and the adults in charge of USA
Gymnastics are responsible for that and
they make that right what do you want to
see happen to dr. Masur
I wanted to spend the rest of his life
in prison the number of people that have
come forward the things that he's done
are reprehensible and an affront to
basic human rights and I believe that he
deserves to be punished for what he's
done for Nightline
I'm Lindsay Janis in New York